docs: tw568-arbitrum-chain-feature-config-structure (#2802)
OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs: docs/launch-arbitrum-chain/features/common/configure-aep/configure-aep-fees.mdx

---
title: 'Why choose to configure AEP fees for your Arbitrum chain'
description: 'Learn about AEP fee configuration and the pros and cons of choosing to configure it.'
author: pete-vielhaber
sme:
content_type: configuration
---

Configuring the AEP fees refers to setting up an optional but recommended smart contract system (the AEP fee router) to automate the calculation, collection, and transfer of the required 10% license fee on the chain's Protocol Net Revenue to the Arbitrum DAO treasury. This feature is part of the Arbitrum Expansion Program (AEP). This self-service licensing model permits developers to use Arbitrum's technology stack (e.g., Nitro) for custom chains in exchange for sharing revenue.

The configuration ensures compliance with the AEP terms, streamlines reporting, and avoids manual transfers, while allowing chains to retain 90% of profits. It's not a core chain parameter like gas tokens but an advanced economic setup for revenue-sharing, applicable only to AEP-licensed chains (i.e., those not settling directly to Arbitrum One or Nova without special approval).

## Key Concepts

> - **Arbitrum Expansion Program (AEP)**: A licensing framework for deploying Orbit chains on any blockchain that derives security from Ethereum (e.g., settling to Ethereum mainnet, other L2s, or even non-Ethereum chains with DAO approval). It requires no upfront permission but mandates paying 10% of net revenue (8% to the DAO treasury, 2% to ecosystem growth funds) on chains generating over $60,000 USD annually in profit. This framework applies to modifications of the stack, including custom DA, gas tokens, or governance.

Reviewer: Btw, I am not familiar with the aep mechanism so I might be wrong here. Do we have any source that pointed to $60,000 annually profit?
Also, we can also add an refer to af docs here: https://docs.arbitrum.foundation/new-arb-chains#arbitrum-expansion-program-aep ?

## Cons

- Reduces net profits by 10%, which could impact low-margin chains (though waived below $60K USD/year).
- Adds deployment and monitoring complexity, especially for cross-chain transfers.
- Reporting requirements may involve audits or transparency, with non-compliance risking license revocation.

## Examples

- **DeFi-Focused Orbit Chain**: Configures the router to route 10% of surplus fees (after Ethereum posting costs) to the DAO, using a custom gas token with oracle-based pricing for accurate `ETH` conversion.
- **Gaming L3 Chain**: Low-revenue setups might skip full configuration initially but enable it upon profitability, bridging fees quarterly.

## How to configure

1. **Calculate Net Revenue**: Use tools or scripts to track total fees minus settlement costs (e.g., via on-chain queries or off-chain monitoring). For custom tokens, deploy a pricer contract to value fees in `ETH` equivalents.
2. **Deploy Fee Router**: Use the Orbit SDK script (e.g., `aep-fee-router.ts`) to deploy contracts like RewardDistributor on your chain. Set it as a fee collector (e.g., for surplus fees via `ArbOwner` precompile).

> 3. **Route and Bridge Fees**: Configure the router to send the 10% share to Ethereum (e.g., via native bridges), then deposit to the DAO address on Arbitrum One. Use functions like `flushBeneficiaryBalance` for periodic transfers.

Reviewer: `flushBeneficiaryBalance` is used for Timeboost, the method of aep should be `RewardDistributor.distributeRewards`
```suggestion
3. **Route and Bridge Fees**: Configure the router to send the 10% share to Ethereum (e.g., via native bridges), then deposit to the DAO address on Arbitrum One. Use functions like `RewardDistributor.distributeRewards` for periodic transfers.
```
